As a software engineer, chances
are you've crossed paths with
Mongo DB. At some point,
whether you're building an app
for millions of users, or
just figuring out your side
hustle, it's the most popular
non-relational database. Mongo DB is
intuitive and incredibly easy for
development teams to use. Now
with Mongo DB Atlas, you
can take advantage of Mongo,
DPS flexible document data model
as a fully automated cloud
service. Mongo DB Atlas handles
all the costly database operations
and admin tasks that you'd
rather not spend time on
like security, high availability, data
recovery monitoring, and elastic scaling.
Try Mongo DB Atlas for
free today. Visit www.mongodb.com/cloud. To
learn more that's Mongo db.com/cloud.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another Hansel minutes
today. I'm talking with Danny
Dilbert. It's like a new
radio project and we are
both very excited about software
defined radio. And you found
me cause I was geeking
out about how great it
is. Yeah. I spend a
lot of time geeking out
about a software radio on
Twitter. So I was very
excited to see you do
the same. Yeah. Whenever someone
discovers a new kind of,
I'm calling it a new
hello world, you know, because
we spent all this time
teaching people how to do
hello world by them, you
know, outputting a text to
a console. And then we
wonder why, you know, why
is this 13 year old
child not excited about software?
We just said, hello world.
And a console. Isn't that
enough for you? Yeah. So
now I'm thinking maybe I
can teach them by plucking
signals off of the electromagnetic
spectrum. Yeah. It's it really
is an incredible demonstration of,
of technology and something you
like when you do it,
you immediately feel a huge
sense of achievement. So I
have to go and talk
to a bunch of kids
tomorrow. I'm going to talk
to 50 kids between 11
and 15. And I think
they have probably talked about
the electromagnetic spectrum or at
least they talked about visible
light. And I wanted to
understand that. So there's this
spectrum, there's electromagnetic waves in
this wide range of frequencies.
And on the one end,
you get frequencies that turn
you into the Hulk. Right.
And then the other other,
and you're what looking at
like, I dunno, black holes.
Talk to me about the
spectrum and what's in there,
right? Yeah. So as you
said, electronics, spectrum various from
what we would call for
zero Hertz would call it
DC. Sometimes I all the
way up to, I mean,
there's no, no end to
it. Right. But to give
you some example, optical light
is in the hundreds of
terahertz, whereas broadcast FM radio,
like, you know, that you
would listen to in your
car, for example, is in
the, you know, high, tens,
low hundreds of megahertz. So,
you know, several orders of,
Well below that. So it's,
it's really just this, this
huge range. And you know,
it contains everything from, you
know, the emissions from black
holes to, you know, the
signal that your car stereo
receives is wifi in there.
It's Bluetooth is yes. So
for, for the tech focused
out there, you know, it's
called the ism bands. And
those are what that means
is those are bands that
you were allowed to transmit
in without having a license.
So there are certain main,
most bands are protected. So
Verizon, for example, has to
sit, tell the FCC, Hey,
you know, we're going to
put up a cellular base
station and we're going to
transmit in this band. And
we expect all of our
users to be, you know,
at frequency X and had
to get a license for
that. Well, obviously you, Scott
Hanselman did not ask the
FCC for a license to
operate your wifi router. And
that's because your wifi router
works in this unlicensed ism
band. And right now the
wifi is typically around 2.4
gigahertz or 5.8 gigahertz, which
are two of the most
widely used ism bands. So
this is effectively real estate,
right? I mean, just like
we have the world and
they always say, they always
smile. My dad always says,
you know, invest in land
because they're not making any
more of it. Are they
making any more of this
real estate? No. So for,
for decades and own decades
for a couple of decades
now, sort of the wireless
world has been freaking out
about what's called the spectrum
crunch, which is, or spectrum
scarcity, which is everyone's running
out of spectrum. Right? So
the, the problem with extreme,
so different fruit, this is
let me know if I
sort of dive way too
deep here. Oh, I'll stop
you because I'm all right.
No, I'm right there with
you, but I get the
idea that there's this range.
Right. And I know that
there's a lot of stuff
that I'm thinking about. Like
what's the IPV six of
the electromagnetic spectrum. We're about
to run out of IP
addresses, let's fix it. What
do we do? And run
out of light. So yeah,
the first key thing to
understand is why the frequency
matters and it's because different
frequencies have different characteristics in
terms of propagation. And what,
by the way, what I
mean by that is when
you emit a signal at
a certain frequency, how it
gets from Plano, where you
transmitted it to, you know,
receive or somewhere else is
very different, depending on the
frequency at which it exists.
So as an example, something
at a V what we
would consider to be a
relatively low frequency, say a
10 megahertz, right? That those
low frequencies can actually, they
go very, very long distances.
So, you know, sometimes you
hear about amateur radio operators
who are bouncing signals off
of the moon, and then
to get them to the
other side of the world,
to talk to somebody on
the opposite side of the
world, you can do that
with low frequencies. You cannot
do that with much higher
frequencies because those higher frequencies
experience what we call attenuation,
which basically loss, you know,
power loss in the signal,
as it, as it moves
through space. Right. I just
had a moment. So I
have a 0.4 gigahertz and
a five gigahertz S I
D a wifi channel, and
to get 2.4 is, you
know, not super high bandwidth,
but it definitely goes out
into my backyard. And the
five gigahertz one is really,
really great and high speed,
but barely makes it to
the window. That's exactly right.
And that's exactly what you're
seeing is, you know, your
5.8 gigahertz band, you know,
it's twice, twice the frequency
of two point of your
2.4 gigahertz band. And it
does not propagate as far.
And so what we've seen
is with our existing technology,
we are constrained to, within
a certain band of, of
wireless frequencies that our consumer
electronic devices can, can work
out. So for there's kind
of, there's, there's two ways
to get more spectrum. Obviously
we can't invent more spectrum,
right? It, it, it is
a thing and you know,
it exists it's Oh, you
can't make any more, you
can't make any more numbers,
but you can add a
lot of decimal points. Exactly.
Right. So, you know, Fundamental
property of physics, actually, it's
one of the four fundamental
forces of the universe. So
two ways to get more
spectrum is you either use
what we have access to
more efficiently, or we go
up in frequency. So both
of those are technology problems
and, you know, it's everything
from, you know, faster processors
and more accurate what we
call analog to digital converters
or digital analog converters. They're
able to pluck it out
at a more fine grain,
like tweezers. That's exactly right.
All the way up to
like applying artificial intelligence, for
example, to figure out, okay,
how can I more effectively
share the spectrum with another
user? Interesting. It makes me
think about how I just
recently upgraded from 100 megabit
to gigabit ethernet, but it's
still going over the same
co-ax cable. And that's the
same collector cable that just
brought me like regular old
analog TV 20 years ago,
30 years ago. And I'm
trying to understand the cables,
the same cable. It's still
the same thing, but they've
shoved a lot more information
in that little pipe. Yeah.
And what's, what's really cool
is all of the physical
concepts that sort of define
how your wireless signal works,
like your wireless wifi signal.
It's the same thing. And
that in that twisted pair,
co-ax, they're all we have.
We call all of that
RF actually RF being radio-frequency.
So, you know, the, the
internet connection you're getting, you
know, through your cable is
an RF technology and your
wifi router is also an
RF technology. Just that one
happens to be wired and
what happens to be wireless
Really. Okay. So these are
all just vibrations of the
electric magnetic radiation, whether it
be through the air or
physically on a piece of
wire. That's exactly right. Invite
vibrations is a good, it's
a fairly good approximation, right?
It's like the deeper dive
would be amended at field
induces an electric field, which
induces a magnetic field, you
know, Hey, I'm going to
go ahead and go with
vibrations waves. Yeah, indeed. Yeah.
Now when you look at
this, at least when we
look at this in school
during the 10 minutes that
they talked to us about
this in high school, they
always like to talk about
the visible, the visible spectrum,
and, you know, depending on
what, what bar chart they
ended up showing you, they
always say, look how small
it is. Look, this is
visible physical, and this is
all the other stuff. Can
I take a software defined
radio and see light or
does as an SDR only
allow me to see certain
parts of the spectrum. So
it would certainly be possible
for someone to build a
software defined radio that worked
at optical frequencies. And that,
that kind of, that kind
of exists in the form
of like a fiber optic
transmissions, for example. But typically
when we talk about SDR,
we're talking about, you know,
sort of commercial off the
shelf software radio products, which
are usually between six gigahertz
and below, whereas optical light
again is at hundreds of
terahertz. So, you know, you
can go on Amazon and
spend 20 or $25. And,
you know, by owed a
low cost software, radio receiver,
you're not gonna find something
like that. That works at
optical frequencies. Okay. So I
went and went to Amazon
and I bought one for
$19 and it's so small.
It basically just looks like
an antenna and a USB
thing. Like it's almost so
small that I, it feels
like there's just nothing in
it, but air. But then
when I looked for software
defined radio, I found ones
that were $300 boxes, $500
boxes, varying levels of complexity.
What is the difference between
the $19 one or the
one that just fits into
like it's in the USB
stick it stone itself. Yeah.
So there are, I probably
know exactly the device you're
talking about and kind of
to your point, you can
buy a software radios that
go that are $20 and
you can buy software radios
that are in the millions
of dollars. And so the,
the difference is really in
the pure, in the, in
the fundamental radio capability that
provides. So the device that
you have for example, is
receive only it cannot transmit
true. It is a single
antenna only. So you can't
benefit from multiple antennas or
multiple channels. The device you
have, I believe is probably
an eight bit ADC. What
we mean by that is
the analog to digital converter
that is listening to the
electromagnetic wave that hits your
antenna and turning it into
a voltage, right? So, you
know, or a digital number
that represents a voltage. So
we're going from analog information
to digital bits. It can
only represent that voltage with
eight bits of precision. Whereas
if you were to spend
a lot more money on
a radio, you might get
something that's producing that number
with 24 bits of precision,
and there's all kinds of,
you know, power amplifiers. And
that of thing that go
into making, you know, the
difference between a $20 receiver
and a, you know, a
hundred thousand. I see. Okay.
So then when I go
and get, I was listening
to the, the news, like
the national public radio and
with, with eight bits, I
can go and get what,
250, a number from zero
to two 55 effectively. And
with 24 bit, you know,
we're going off into space.
We have just incredible amounts
of Deedo 16 million. The range
is insane from an unsigned
integer perspective. Tail is very
much increased. That's exactly right.
And so that directly impacts
the type of information you're
able to reconstruct. So if
you think about, so let's
think about your voice. Okay.
So let's say, Scott, I'm
going to take your voice
and I'm going to, quantitize
it? What that, what I
mean by that is I'm
gonna take your voice and
define digital values that describe
your voice. So when you
speak really lowly, I'm going
to say, that's 10, when
you speak really high, I'll
say, that's the max, that's
two 55, right. Being, giving
me, giving myself eight bits
here. Right? So, but obviously
your real voice is, is
a continuous function, right? There's
not these individual steps between
levels. So there's loss of
information here because I can't
accurately represent the entire range
of your voice. But let's
say I take that from
eight bits to 10 bits.
Now I have, you know,
1,024 levels. Now I can
represent more information. And so
that same concept applies to
Communication systems. Okay. So you
mentioned that the radio is
small. It's receive only, but
still with this little $20
thing, I was able to
do a whole lot. Now
I did find that when
I tried to listen to
quote unquote the radio, and
by that, I mean, FM
radio, I did have to
kind of move it around.
It felt like the old
days where I was holding
the antenna up in the
air to make sure I
got a good signal. I
wasn't picking up kind of
like a lot without having
to do a little bit
of work. That's just based
on the size of the,
the antenna. So there's a
lot of factors at play
there. And I, I'm not
exaggerating when I say many,
many graduate theses and dissertations
have been written about this
topic. And so that's everything
from when, when you, when
a radio signal is transmitted,
there's not a single path
that it takes to a
receiver, right? It's bouncing off
buildings and it's moving through
trees and it gets slowed
down, you know, going through
windows. So, you know, depending
on how you move your
antenna around the signals that
are incident upon your antenna
very widely. And that actually
is even more effected by
the frequency at which you're
operating, because the wavelength of
a very high frequency signal
and by wavelength, I mean,
radio signals, as they're moving
through space, they actually can
be, they have some, some
amount of wavelengths before the,
the, the period repeats itself.
So if you think about
a really high signal it's,
you can think of it
like scribbling really, really quickly
up and down. Whereas a
low frequency signal is sort
of going up and down
a really slowly as it's
going through space. And so
as you move your antenna
around, you're going to see
different parts of a very
high frequency signal differently than
you would see parts of
a very low frequency signal.
So there's just, there's so
much complexity to something as
simple as just moving your
antenna around and seeing how
it affects the reception of
the signal that you care
about. That's interesting. I was
driving a yesterday in Seattle
and I was using my
GPS and I'm in downtown
Seattle. And if you've been
down there, you know, that
the streets are quite narrow
and the buildings are quite
tall and I'm driving and
doing my thing. And suddenly
on the GPS, my car
moved over to streets. And
I was like, I guess
I'm not where I thought
I was is, are the,
is the signal the, the,
the frequency of the GPS
bouncing off buildings. And it
just bounced in a different
way. And I found myself.
Yeah. So it's funny because
a GP GPS, the way
that, that particular, what we
would call wave form is
designed is, is not terribly
robust to working well in
urban environments. It, it doesn't
do well going through buildings.
It bounces in weird ways.
You know, it doesn't, it
can't propagate through a concrete.
So that's why you wouldn't,
you're in a parking garage.
You know, you, you get
that, Oh, GPS signal lost
message from your phone. And
so, and that's exactly what,
what you described is exactly
right. We would call that.
Multipath where that GPS signal
is bouncing off the urban
environment and in what you
are receiving confuses the radio,
it, you know, it decodes
the information and just says,
okay, well, you know, I'm
doing the best I can,
but you're not actually getting
what you should be. Right.
And of course, you're picking
it up from multiple satellites.
So it's probably internally voting
on what it thinks is
going on. And when they
all, when they all agree,
it gives you a general
sense of where you are
when they all disagree. It's
like, well, good luck finding
your way around Seattle. Yeah.
GPS is a, is inherently
the way that GPS works
is actually a time is
a time based system, right?
The GPS satellites, all they're
doing is broadcasting their time,
their, their instantaneous time. So
when you get into scenarios
like that, you know, it
sort of falls apart quickly.
Yeah. Your code is powerful.
And so are you. And
when you consider the reach
of your code, it's clear
that to deliver quality code,
you must also deliver secure
code. So where can you
start? A first step is
educating yourself on basic secure
coding principles and beginning to
put these principles into practice
every day. Vera code secure
coding toolkit is your go
to resource for all your
secure coding needs. The benefits
of the toolkit include learning
best practices for secure coding,
understanding how to secure your
dev ops environments and learning
to combat the most common
software vulnerabilities, stay secure and
download this valuable asset today
at vericode.com/toolkit. That's V R
a covid.com/toolkit. So I I've
got this, this little, little
radio, and I can go
and install the software for
it. And there's lots of
different pieces of software for
it. And as people go
and explore this, a lot
of them will find or
think that they have to
pay, they have to buy
a package for this, but
they don't necessarily have to
buy a package once they've
got their radio. Yeah, that's
right. So The software radio
community has really grown up
around open source, open source
software. I realized that it
kind of, it can feel,
it can feel silly to
talk about software radio and
using software where that versus
the hardware device itself, it's
probably worth real quickly just
clarifying that by software radio.
We mean a hardware device
that, that is control old
and used by software. Okay.
So there's no knob on
my, on my device. That's
right. So the, the way
I like to describe this,
and I realize I'm sort
of deviating from your question
a little bit, please, but
the, so my favorite analogy
for this is if you
sort of think back to
the way computers were when
they were first created in
the forties and the 1940s,
where in order to represent
some computation, a programmer would
literally, you know, flip switches
and plug wires into various
ports to create an electrical
circuit that represented the math
that needed to get done.
Right. And that has, you
know, as, as computing has
evolved, we're at the point
now where instead of having
algorithms defined in hardware, we
have general purpose processors that
we then tell what to
do with software. And that's
exactly the same thing. That's
happened with software radio. So
many decades ago, you would
build a piece of, you
know, or an elect, an
electrical circuit that did some
radio function, and it would
do that one radio function.
Well, now we build general
purpose, radio hardware, and we
tell it what to do
and interact with it through
software. Mm I'm. Just exploring
this space. So from my,
the things that I was
most interested in were two
things, and I thought they
were kind of my two
fun, hello worlds. The first
one was to just listen
to the radio, to plug
it in and put in
like my favorite radio station
at 91.5. I believe that
megahertz, right. That's where FM
is. That's right. And then
I can see it. And
what was interesting was what
I did that I'm here
in Portland. So 91.5 is
national public radio. I could
see the neighbor stations for
the first time in my
life, literally next door. Like,
I know that they're next
door. I intellectualize that they're
next door, but seeing the
kind of the bell curve
and then an empty space.
And then the other stations,
one of them was rock
music, and one of them
was jazz and they looked
different. Like, I didn't listen
to them, but I could
tell that that's the rock
station. Yeah. That is. So
we, the radio community, Especially
in the open source world,
we, we generally consider building
an FM radio receiver to
be our equivalent of a
hello world. Good. You, you
didn't, you did exactly what
exactly what we would have
told you, you had had,
you asked us excellent. And
yeah, exactly what you're describing.
So what, what you're describing
is visualizing the frequency domain,
right? Cause what, what you
saw is not how it's
not how signals Look in
the air indeed. And so
w what you were looking
at was a visualization of
the power and the electromatic
magnetic spectrum across different frequencies.
And so you could see,
you know, those exactly as
you described those radio stations
positioned around and, you know,
the power levels going up
and down and frequency is,
as your receiver saw, saw
things happening. And what's, you
know, what's amazing about that
to me is actually Richard,
Richard Simon has a really great
talk about just how incredible
electromagnetic spectrum is because it's,
it's just everywhere. It permeates
everything. It's, it's kind of
like the force, right? It's,
it's, it is absolutely everywhere
all the time. And things
are bouncing everywhere. And, you
know, the air around you
is filled with information. And,
you know, normally as a
human, you know, we, we
do not have the, the
sensors quote, unquote, to be
able to observe that. But,
you know, using this software
radio technology and open source
software, you're able to observe
it and interact with it
and actually manipulate one of
the four fundamental forces of
the universe. And that's just
incredible. I think People not
to get too off topic,
but why do people worry
about them? Whether it be
the microwave oven in the
eighties, everyone was like, stay
away from the microwave. The
microwave will give you cancer,
or don't put the cell
phone to your head. There
are dangerous electromagnetic frequencies, but
are not the ones that
we spend time in and
hold near our heads and
sleep next to ones that
are probably not going to
kill us. Yeah. So this
is this, this is, this
is the realm of, you
know, much, there's all kinds
of conspiracy theories and real
science and pseudoscience. And, you
know, unfinished studies, the, the,
there is a scientifically, scientifically
accepted health, you know, sort
of health studies about this.
And the key thing is
all of the frequencies that
we're interacting with, you know,
the, or rather all of
the frequencies that we sort
of blindly transmit out into
the open, like, you know,
FM broadcast, radio, and wifi,
and that sort of thing.
Those are that's non-ionizing radiation.
So what we care about
in terms of health is
ionizing radiation. What we mean
by that is ionizing. Radiation
is radiation that when it
hits the atoms in your
body, you know, it can,
it can change, it'll affect
the electrons of those atoms.
And that requires a certain
energy level within that radiation.
And so all of the
signals that we're talking about
don't have that energy level.
They can't, they affect the
atoms in your body. Okay.
So when we say ina
ization to use an, not
an analogy, but oversimplifying it's
like, these are ones that
are energetic enough to cause
trouble. And these ones are
ones that it's just where
they're just passing through. And
honestly, whether you decide to
have wifi in your house
or not, you're going to
have these things running through
your body all the time.
Anyway. So Yeah, that's the,
what you just said is
how I wished I had
described it Now, the next
step was I was at
91.5 megahertz, and then I
have an insulin pump and
I wrote an article about
this. And it's also a
wonderful article that I'll make
sure I put in the,
in the show notes by
peach wham, who used a
software defined radio to decode
what was happening at 915
megahertz, which happens to be
where my insulin pump does
its radio frequency communication and
what I haven't succeeded in
doing this, but I want
to figure out how to
get the ones and zeros
off of that wire basically
see the packets going by.
I've got it to the
point where I plugged the
software defined radio in, I
can initiate communication with the
insulin pump. I can see
lights blinking on the pump
and I can see the
frequencies and the powers change
at that frequency, but I
don't know how to get
from there to ones and
zeros. What's that leap? Yeah.
So that's a really cool
question. And I'll, I'll, I'll
also go ahead and take
the second to point out
that 915 megahertz is the
third, most popular ism band.
So yeah, It's the sub
gigahertz band. Like I also
found out that by my
garage, Door's there too, which
was surprising. That's right. That's
also where, if you remember,
you know, back in the
nineties and early two thousands,
we, everyone had a wireless,
you know, handheld landline phones,
and that's where those phones
operated. I remember those were
so bad. Yeah. It did
not work well like terrible,
but to answer your actual
question. So w what's interesting
about what you just described
is they're actually two fundamentally
different radio technologies. So what
I mean by that. And
so you're actually describing a
split between analog modulation and
digital modulation. So when you
did your, when you listened
to your FM broadcast radio,
right. That, that your hello
world, what that signal is,
what FM radio is frequency
modulation, and to give the
sort of the simplest response,
if you think about, you
know, when you, when you
talk, right, and you see,
you know, like a wave
that represents your, your, your
voice. Right. Right. And if
I'm allowed, it's really tall,
right. So what analog modulations
are is they, they don't
attempt to turn that into
ones and zeros. It just
takes that raw signal that
represents information in this case,
your voice, what we call
mixes, which basically means put
it up at a certain
frequency. So it takes your
voice, which is at hundreds
of kilohertz, multiplies it up
to, you know, 91.5 megahertz
and transmits it. So there
is no digital information. It
actually is your voice just
multiply it up. So it's
such a high frequency. You
can't quote unquote, listen to
it without a radio. What
you described though at the,
your, your, the insulin pump.
And I have, I have
to say, I have no
familiarity with, you know, the,
the, the particular device you're
talking about, but assuming it's
a digital modulation, it's entirely
different. So what it's doing
is it's taking the information
it wants to transmit. And
it actually is, you know,
looking at it in terms
of one's and zero's turning
that into packets. And then,
you know, then modulating those
packets and transmitting them. So
when you listen to an
analog modulation, you don't ever
have to, you know, only
reason you would put it
into ones and zeros really,
so that you could do
something with it on your
computer, but if you had
the right equipment and you
could actually just go basically
directly from antenna to speaker,
cause the heart, there is
no one's and zero's computation
necessary. Okay. My radio is
not making a wave file
out of bits. It's going
analog. And it's like, there's
no conversion here. Listen to
it. Yeah. We're making it.
Yeah. Yeah. You certainly couldn't
do that. And, but, but
your, your, your insulin pump,
for example, that actually is
working with digital information. And
so suddenly there's, there's more
complexity. Right. So now, now
we care about things like,
you know, how big is
a packet? What is the
header information on this, on
this packet? What if one
of the bits gets flipped
through the air? Do I
have error correction? So that
I'm robust to that. Right.
So that all these additional
layers of complexity as we
sort of, you know, advanced
that modulation. Yeah. Yeah. It's
really fascinating. So if I
can understand if I can
paraphrase what you're saying and
then add on how the
insulin pump works, when I'm
doing listening to the radio,
like you said, it's analog
and there's, there's amplitude there
where the power is giving
me information, but not turning
it into a number, but
with the insulin pump they're
using, what's called frequency shift
keying. So rather than going
and again, oversimplifying up and
down, it's going kind of
left and right. It's like,
okay, I'm going to stand
a little bit to the
left. That'll be zero. I
don't understand it a little
bit to the right. That'll
be one. And it's dancing
around that center frequency expressing
the higher frequency as a
one in the lower frequency
as a zero, and then
to go and solve the
problem of, did I miss
something? It actually encodes a
bit, one bit with two
bits, it uses a thing
called Manchester coding. So these
are all ways to work
around. It sounds to me
like basically this, the electromagnetic
spectrum wasn't designed to shove
bits around. So we're going
to figure out how to
put them in envelopes and
put them in preambles and
put them in headers and
shove them through this, this,
this, this force is fundamental
force of the universe. That's
exactly right. Yeah. The wire.
So working at RF, which
was, you know, working at
radio frequency, whether it's wired
or wireless now wired channels
tend to be a lot
easier to deal with, but
there's, there's, it's very hard.
Right. It's kinda funny. Cause
the more sort of the
longer that I've been in
this field, the more incredible
it is to me that
any of this works at
all, sort of all the
time described all computers, these
sort of all the time.
And you learn about like
one more thing. And it's
like one more thing that
these radios have to deal
with to get, you know,
a bit from the transmitter
to receiver. You're like, how,
how did anyone ever make
this work and how, how
does, why, you know, and
that's exactly right. You know,
every single impairment, you know,
has, has to be dealt
with in some way for
communicating communication system to work.
So people should go to
Amazon and whether you're an
adult or a kid or
an adult who has a
kid or knows a kid
and get, start with a
kit, get an SD radio,
get an STR, or they're
very inexpensive. They're super fun
to play with. You can
start at the new radio
GNU, radio.org, and also it's
worth pointing out that you're
having a conference in Alabama
in September. So September 16th to
the 20th and 2019, the
new radio conferences happening. Yes,
that's right. So we have
a, we have a yearly
conference. We've been doing it
since 2011. So this will
be our ninth year. And
you know, it's been really
incredible when we first started
out, we were, you know,
40 people sort of crammed
into a classroom at UPN.
And now, you know, we
have several hundred that come
together every year from all
over the world. And, you
know, it's, it's, it's everyone
from, you know, a hobbyist
or a student just learning,
just learning about radio or,
you know, they're just interested
in hardware or they're interested
in math or physics, you
know, all the way up
to people who, you know,
who been building these radios
for decades. So we have
a really incredible array of
people. It's incredible place to,
to meet the community and
learn fantastic. And also, as
you, as you famously said
that of all of the
four fundamental forces of the
universe, weak nuclear force, gravity,
strong nuclear force, and electromagnetic
only one is safe to
manipulate from home. So we
should all get an SDR
and get involved in a
software defined radio. Yeah. I,
the community is very welcoming
and I, software radio can
be overwhelming. There's so much
to it, but it's also
incredibly rewarding and there's many
people all over the world
that, you know, all want
to figure out this together
and do cool things. Well,
thank you so much, Ben.
Hillburn for chatting with me
today. Yeah. This has been
really great. Thanks for having
me, Scott. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .